[MUSIC]
>> Kevin Whinnery: The first part
that we'll start to break down in our
application stack is one of the most
important components that we have in
the stack,
which is the Express Web server.
It handles incoming HTTP requests and
renders HTTP responses with HTML and JSON.
It's kind of a core component of this and
any other NODE.JS web application.
It's very similar in style to,
say Sinatra, if you've worked with
that framework in the Ruby world.
Or maybe Nancy from the C# world,
or any number of other HTTP
micro frameworks out there,
in that it is very minimal.
And it's also by far the most popular
HTTP request handling library out there.
I'm loath to call it a web framework
because it's not really a framework.
It's a module that's really good at
routing HTTP requests to a chunk of
JavaScript code that you would
like to run on the server.
Unlike a framework like Rails or
ASP.net, NVC, or
Spring, batteries are absolutely
not included with Express.
Anything you want Express to do,
you have to install as
additional middleware or
some other add-on to the software.
So there's good things and
bad things about this.
The good thing is that you never
end up with more bloat in your
application than you absolutely require.
Because you're consciously choosing
every single piece of software
that's executed when you're
handling an HTTP request.
The downside is that there
are no intelligent defaults.
So if you want to do something like,
I don't know parse incoming post requests
from a client, you need to install
an extra piece of middleware to do that.
Which we have in our
our sample application.
So there's good things and
bad things about that design.
The reason why I still like it very
much today is because it's not magical.
It's very easy for me to reason about what
this piece of software is actually doing.
And the reason for that is it's
all based on a middleware stack.
Before we go any any further,
does anybody know what this picture
is a reference to, by any chance?
No?
All right, so what you all need to
do today when you go home is fire up
your Kindle and download Ready Player One.
It's the name of the name of the book.
And this is the stacks,
which is a vertical trailer home,
which is a trailer park which
is featured in Ready Player One.
A fantastic book you will not
be sorry that you did that.
But the middleware stack
is all Express is.
It's just executing a set of JavaScript
functions to process an incoming HTTP
request, which is coming
into your web application.
So when your web app receives
a HTTP request on port 3000 or
wherever it's running,
usually what happens is Express
will execute something
called the middleware.
And that's just a fancy name for
a JavaScript function, which takes in
an HTTP request, execute some logic and
either returns a response or
passes it ahead to the next
handler in the middleware stacked.
So, in a typical Express application,
you have some number of global middleware,
they're gonna run on almost
every request or every request.
And we'll see how we can
figure that here in a second.
We'll also have some specific
routes in our applications.
So we'll wanna handle specific
URLs with specific logic, for
maybe getting a to-do item
out of our database or
executing other logic when a certain path
is requested within the web application.
And then if the global middleware and
the application routes are unable
to process the request.
Or, God forbid, an error happens during
the execution of those middleware,
we can have other middleware that's
lower down in our stack that
will catch errors like a 404 not found.
Like, if we don't have a handler to
handle a certain kind of request.
Or a 500 error if one of our other
middlewares throws an exception.
So we have this stack of JavaScript
functions that are executed sequentially.
At some point, someone is going to return
a response of some kind, hopefully.
It's kind of how this works.
And if you've done any servlet programming
or developed Rack applications for Ruby,
you might be kind of familiar with
this concept of a middleware stack.